Hey Zev, here Franco.

I was just listening to you in Lex's podcast, and I can say that the things I heard from you are quite interesting. Thanks for sharing and being bold enough to speak your mind.

I want to transmit that I share the spirit of making the world a better place (of course). I will comment on some things that maybe you can find interesting, hopefully we can talk about some of them. I will also pose some questions! 


Firstly, impact. You seem to have chosen to speak in public, which is of course needed. What I was wondering is if you have any plan or idea about how to impact the world the most. Do you see yourself as a future leader? Do you expect to gather power in order to form the world according to your views? Are you familiar with 80000 hours?

Maybe you could agree with the fact that it is quite difficult for a single individual to make lasting impact in the world without acting through or along other humans. In my opinion, we are just getting started with using IT to organize impulsive actions: Wall Street Bets is a very good example of this idea in practice. I think that commiting to participate in a punctual, scheduled action, is much easier than continuously participating. E.g. all people that do not agree with animal farming could predefine a boycott date two years ahead instead of starting and quitting vegetarianism (this is tremendously oversimplified, just to get the point across). What do you think about such a method of action?


Secondly, government. You talk about giving power to thinkers as the only good way forward. Although I understand there are deeper level of understanding of certain topics (and may be that I'm in a pretty basic level here), I don't fully agree with technocracy. Probably the main argument against it is that it's quite difficult to prove that someone is capable, and if you go into that rabbit hole asking why, you would end up signaling who should have the power. Democrats (like me) would answer "power could not be given to a minority". What do you think about this? How do you think the conflict between relativizing truth (democracy) and deep levels of understanding (technocracy)?


Sorry if this offends you, but I felt quite identified with many views :P 
I may leave now with only one more question (as if I had asked few): what do you think an alternative societal organization should be? I.e. do you have any utopia? Do you have any progressive implementation in mind?

I hope you enjoy reading and answering, best regards!


